## Swiss NBCN-Browser

Around the globe, most people consider climate change to be a major concern. Combatting its detrimental consequences will be one of the most critical challenges in the years and decades to come. Scientists require high-quality data to understand current and past climate processes better. MeteoSuisse, the swiss national office for meteorology and climatology, manages a network of meteorological stations systematically gathering data since 1864. MeteoSuisse and the [National Center for Climate Services (NCCS)](https://www.nccs.admin.ch/nccs/de/home.html) have published various articles on climate change in Switzerland, some of which are listed below. MeteoSuisse also publishes daily averages and extreme temperature values for all 29 stations of the Swiss [National Basic Climatological (NBCN)](https://www.meteoswiss.admin.ch/weather/measurement-systems/land-based-stations/swiss-national-basic-climatological-network.html) network as open data on [opendata.swiss](https://opendata.swiss/de/organization/bundesamt-fur-meteorologie-und-klimatologie-meteoschweiz). Interested parties may freely download this rich and continually updated dataset and conduct their own studies.

NBCN Browser intends to offer interested persons a tool to explore the daily temperature dataset mentioned above using various techniques. Select a menu command and one of the 29 available Climatological network (Swiss NBCN) stations to generate the specified graphical or numerical output. For each analysis, the station title links to the NBCN home page, where additional information on the selected station is available. You may also download the data for every station to conduct analyses yet to be implemented in NBCN-Browser.

### Menu
- **Summarize**: Displays a table with summary information on the station temperature history, such as average and extreme daily, monthly and yearly temperatures. All monthly and yearly averages are also shown.
- **Time series**: shows the time series diagram for the average temperature, number of heating degrees days or heating days of the selected station. You may show the average temperature as a horizontal line and/or a regression line.
- **3D Spiral View**: Shows a 3D Spiral view of the data inspired by Ed Hawkins famous [climate spiral](https://www.climate-lab-book.ac.uk/spirals/) visualization of Ed Hawkins. The user may select between showing the average monthly temperature or differences from the monthly climate normal, calculated as monthly averages for the period before 1900. The 3D plot is interactive and different angles provide different insights into the data, which is less evident from the time series diagram. 
- **Data**: allows the user to select a range of years and shows the daily temperature data from MeteoSuisse. 